Example Script
==============

Here's the example script that iTerm2 provides for you, minus some comments:

.. code-block:: python

    #!/usr/bin/env python3

    import iterm2

    async def main(connection):
        app = await iterm2.async_get_app(connection)
        window = app.current_terminal_window
        if window is not None:
            await window.async_create_tab()
        else:
            print("No current window")

	iterm2.run(main)

There's a lot going on here. Let's take it part by part.

.. code-block:: python

    #!/usr/bin/env python3

This is standard boilerplate for a Python script. See :doc:`running` for
details on how scripts are run.

The next part of the template script are the imports:

.. code-block:: python

    import iterm2

`iterm2` is a Python module (available on PyPI) that provides a nice interface
to communicate with iTerm2. The underlying implementation uses Google protobuf
and websockets. For most purposes, that is completely abstracted away.

.. code-block:: python

    async def main(connection):

Your code goes inside `main`. The first argument is a `connection` that holds
the link to a running iTerm2 process. `main` gets called only after a
connection is established.  If the connection terminates (e.g., if you quit
iTerm2) then any attempt to use it will raise an exception and terminate your
script.

The `async` keyword may be unfamiliar if you haven't used asyncio before. It
signifies that this function can be interrupted, for example to perform a
remote procedure call over a network. Because iTerm2 communicates with the
script over a websocket connection, any time the script wishes to send or
receive information from iterm2, it will have to wait for a few milliseconds. 

The benefit of asyncio is that while the script is stopped waiting for a
response from iTerm2, other work can happen. For example, handling of
notifications from iTerm2. We'll see more about that later.

.. code-block:: python

        app = await iterm2.async_get_app(connection)

The purpose of this line is to get a reference to the :class:`iterm2.App`
object, which is useful for most things you'll want to do in a simple script.
It is a singleton that provides access to iTerm2's global state, such as its
windows.

Note the use of `await`. Any function that's defined as `async`, which most
functions in the iTerm2 API are, must be called with `await`. It means it might
not return immediately. While it waits, messages from iTerm2 or other I/O may
be received and handled.

In this case, it makes an RPC call to iTerm2 to get its state (such as the list
of windows). The returned value is an :class:`iterm2.App`.

If you forget to use `await` you'll get a warning in the Script Console.
iTerm2's library follows a naming convention to help you remember to use
`await`: any function that is declared `async` will have a name that begins
with `async_`.

.. code-block:: python

        window = app.current_terminal_window

This fetches the "current terminal window" from the app. The current terminal
window is the terminal window (and not, for example, the preferences window or
some other non-terminal window) that receives keyboard input when iTerm2 is
active. 

If there are no terminal windows then :meth:`iterm2.App.async_get_key_window`
returns `None`.

.. code-block:: python

        if window is not None:
            await window.async_create_tab()

If there is a current terminal window, add a tab to it. The new tab uses the
default profile.

.. code-block:: python

	else:
	    print("No current window")

This prints a diagnostic message. You can view these messages in the Script
Console. Select *Scripts > Script Console* in iTerm2 to view the output of
your scripts. If something's not working right, you can usually find the
problem in the Script Console. You can also use it to terminate a misbehaving
script.

.. code-block:: python

	iterm2.run(main)

This makes a connection to iTerm2 and invokes your `main` function in an
asyncio event loop.

Continue to the next section, :doc:`running`.

----

--------------
Other Sections
--------------

* :doc:`/index`
    * :doc:`index`
    * Example Script
    * :doc:`running`
    * :doc:`daemons`
    * :doc:`rpcs`
    * :doc:`hooks`

Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`search`
